Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now this lecture we're going to look at making a list from afar.
So as you can see I've created a new file here called making a list from a file and I've just given
it the title making a list from a file.
In previous lectures we've been using with open to start our programs and when we use with the file
object returned by Open is only available inside the block that contains it.
If you want to retain access to a file's contents outside the block we can store defined lines in a
list inside the block and then work with that list.
Let's look an example that stores the lines of movies line by line itx in a list inside the block and
then print the lines outside the block.
And how do we get started.
Well we start with our file name variable equals movies.
Line by line.
I should probably shorten this down push no matter what we have for the moment that XTi.
Next we have with open file names who are variable and there is file object.
So nothing new so far called next lines equals a File object that read like brackets and then we remove
an then so forward line in line.
Let's call it print line dot strip brackets.
Now let's run this and see what we guess.
There we go.
Now this looks like the same output as the last lecture and in appearance wise it is.
But now this information is all stored in a list and we can start to modify and do things this list
that we've seen in previous lectures such as work on the first five films in the list work on the last
five of the list or start searching through the list.
But we look at how to manipulate information and things like that a little later on.
So let's just run through this program and have a look at some of the some of the bits that we may not
have seen before.
So at line 8 here the Red Line method takes each line from the file and stores it in a list.
This list is then stored in lines which we can continue to work with after the block ends here at line
10 are using a simple for loop to print each line from lines.
So although the output looks the same it is very very different from the previous lecture.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.